Okay, the tape is rolling. Is my voice okay to you now?
Yeah, except you're a little faint, so if I have to say what, that's why.
No problem. We ended away.
Tell us a little bit about how you got involved in writing science fiction.
Well, I first started writing for science fiction magazines,
and way back in 1962, I think.
Actually, I was a graduate student and had been trying to make a little money on the side,
as most graduate students do.
And so I had been writing some speculation science articles for various magazines like
missiles and rockets and science digest.
And I sent one of these to Galaxy, and Fred Pole bought it.
And I didn't write that one under my own name.
It was about our lack of knowledge about Pluto, basically.
And the fact that Pluto really doesn't belong where Bode's Law says it should be.
In fact, it looks like it's a usurped Neptune's place in Bode's Law.
And so I just sort of dreamed up a half-fiction article,
and that Pluto really was a giant artifact, a gravity catapult,
that had been sent to the solar system by some other civilization,
and had stopped at the solar system by pushing Neptune out of the way with its gravity forces,
which, if you make a gravity catapult, it can push things as well as pull things.
And it was sitting out there waiting for us, and around this gravity catapult was a tiny moon,
which had a message for us.
If you can get out this far, this gravity catapult will take you to the stars.
And that has now been reprinted in Jerry Pornell's collection on black holes, as Pluto is black.
And the interesting thing about it is that not too many years ago,
they found out that Pluto really does have a moon, so maybe it's going to come true. I don't know.
Anyway, that was my first entry into the science fiction world besides reading it all the time.
I mean, I was really influenced by science fiction in my youth.
But the way I got into actually writing fiction was Larry Niven tricked me.
And what happened was that Larry Niven and Jerry Pornell were running a lecture series at UCLA,
invited me to come and give a scientific talk on gravity as part of their series.
It was how science fiction and science interact.
And at the close of one of the sessions that Larry was talking on,
he said he wanted to write a story about beings that lived on a neutron star.
Frank Drake had mentioned this idea a number of years before.
He said he really wanted to write that story.
And that night at the cocktail party that they threw, I said, Larry, I'll tell you what I'll do.
I will work up all the scientific detail behind the story because I know a lot about neutron star physics.
And it would be a fun story to read.
And I'd like to read hard science fiction.
And what I'd like to do is give you enough facts so that you can write a really hard science fiction story
without too many errors in it.
Sometimes Larry does write stuff that has problems because he isn't a scientist.
And so I worked up all the science and gave him about 25, 30 pages of notes.
And he said, gee, I'm busy right now working with Jerry Pornell on something called Lucifer's Hammer.
And I'm pretty busy.
I'll tell you what we'll do. Why don't we just sort of make this a collaboration?
You may write the first draft of the story.
And then I'll take it over from there and rewrite the thing.
So you're not a writer.
And I am.
And that we will get the best of both worlds.
Well, so I went back and wrote the first draft.
And when I came back, he was still busy.
And so I ended up finding out that I wanted to read this story.
And the only way I could read that story was to write it first.
So I had to write it.
And so Larry and Evan tricked me into getting into science fiction.
You mentioned in the acknowledgments to Dragon's Egg that among others Larry and Evan gave them something to do.
He must have suggested something for the aliens to do.
Yeah, basically Larry, by the way, it's just playing Dragon's Egg with no B.
But anyway, Larry and Evan basically gave the thousand to one, I mean excuse me, the million to one time difference.
And the main thing that he brought out was the fact that the important part of the story was not all the science, which would have been in my tendency to write.
But the problems of how do you communicate with somebody that lives and dies a million times faster than you do?
And if those beings, those beings, since they would be thinking a million times faster than you, would figure out that you were there long before you could figure out they were there.
And they had to figure out a way to communicate with you and signal you that they were there before you left.
And so he mentioned the fact that, for instance, when somebody on the neutron star would have to climb a mountain and send a signal, and that might take them many generations.
Actually, in the story I compressed it into one generation basically.
But that was the kind of attitude that he brought toward the story that helped a lot.
You also mentioned Lester Del Ray has helped turn a paper into a novel. How did this process occur?
Well, my very first draft, of course, was quite rough from a writing point of view.
And when Lester looked at it, he saw some potential in it.
But as it was, as the manuscript was sent to him, it wasn't acceptable, it wasn't the book.
And he sat down and typed up 14 pages, single-spaced, of detailed criticism of the manuscript.
And those 14 pages, when I followed them to the letter, and I don't think I disagreed with him on, but say, one or two things.
When I went back through the manuscript and took his suggestions and then looked at the resultants, it began to be readable instead of being a science fact article, I guess.
It had some flow, it had some characterization, but it still was a hard science fiction novel.
Have you gotten some feedback from Frank Drake? Has he read this book and commented on it?
Oh, yes. After about the first draft, I think I sent Frank Drake the same draft that I sent Lester Del Ray.
And said that I really appreciated using his idea, and would he mind if I named one of the characters after him?
And he said that he and his wife had been... Frank Drake said that he and his wife knew that there was a baby on the way.
And if it was a girl, they'd already picked out the name for it. And there was to be Amelida Shakashiri Drake.
And he said if I wanted to use that name, that would be fine, because it sort of matched the names that I already had in the story.
I was trying to recognize the fact that 50 or 100 years from now, we're going to have a lot more names, which indicates cross-marrying between cultures.
And so he suggested that name, and I thought it was great, and so I used it.
And actually, Amelida Shakashiri Drake was born. Unfortunately, Granddad and Grandma didn't get to name the baby, and Mommy did.
And it ended up being another Indian name instead of that.
Well, Amelida, that's very good, because you shouldn't stick a baby with trying to match up to some imaginary character in some novel.
And that's, I think, one of the lessons I've learned in my next novel. I've used a lot of people that I know as character models, but I'm not going to use their names.
It's not a good idea, basically.
In Dragon's Egg, you put in a lot of work on the aliens themselves, the neutron star, the various strategies for approaching the neutron star.
What was the most difficult thing to work out among these various things I've mentioned?
Well, none of them were very difficult. I think one of the things that amazed me is I started working on the technical background that I was preparing for Larry Niven.
Without everything sort of fell into place, if you want to go near a neutron star, it's kind of dangerous, but none of the neutron star is old.
And so that meant, you know, that the neutron star had to have been made half a million years or so ago, which meant that it probably could have been seen by a supernova.
And by the way, that sort of turns out to be the time when the apes turned into humans.
Maybe I could use that as a cue to, that the neutron star would cause the humans to evolve.
And then I said, gee, that's great. Now, why can't I have a human arrival be the cause for the neutron star happy apes to develop into intelligent beings?
And then very, you know, all of that sort of fell into place. I think the only problem I really had for a long time was the fact that if you get anywhere near a neutron star, the gravity fields are so high that the gravity changes even across a two or three feet are hundreds and two hundreds of times Earth gravity.
And so if you try to get within, if you try to get close enough to a neutron star, so it filled up as much of the thought of the area and the sky as the sun does, about a half degree, the gravity tides, you're in orbit, you're in free fall.
The only part of you that's in free fall is, is you're right in the middle of your body, right in the middle of your body. Your head is being, is a little further away from the star than your feet or the middle of your body.
Your head is being pulled off by 200 gravities. Your feet are being pulled off by 200 gravities while you're being squashed in from the sides by 100 gravities.
And so that you couldn't put a human being within 400 kilometers of a neutron star without them being torn apart, literally.
And then all of a sudden, one of these days when I was driving back and forth to work, I realized that if I allowed the humans to have the capability to make very dense masses, take some asteroids and turn them into dense asteroids, then I could create a counter-gravity field.
And amazingly enough, when I went through the numbers, it worked out perfectly. It's really amazing that it worked at all.
And so I use this idea of having six very dense masses around the spacecraft that the humans are in in order to create a counter-tide to cancel the neutron star tide.
And I thought that was a lot of fun and I used it in the story and it's scientifically correct.
Then about that story, by the way, the Dragon's Egg was published in 1980 and then last year, about June, I said, jeez.
If very dense masses will protect against the neutron star, how big does the mass have to be to protect against the very weak forces of the Earth's tides up in orbit?
And I found out that tungsten will do quite well. You know, it's any kind of heavy metal.
And so I just have finished writing a paper which I've submitted to the physical review, which is the most prestigious physics journal in the United States,
which points out that if you take six masses and put them around an experiment that you're trying to do in Earth orbit, you will create a gravity-free region
over a fairly large area. It's about the, I'd say it's about the size of a large double layer cake, okay?
Which is enough to do a significant experiment and I can cut the Earth's tides by a factor of a thousand to two thousand using this technique.
And it's just amazing. Here is an idea that came up because of a need in a science fiction story
that a year or so later, I find may turn out to be a practical technique for making ultra-low gravity near the Earth
or space manufacturing and very sensitive gravity experiments and things like that, where you're trying to eliminate any kind of tidal effect.
And so after having written the scientific article and sent it in, I shortened it and I've since have sold this article to Analog
and you should be seeing it in September, August, September, October issue of Analog.
It is called flattening space. Well, actually flattening space time because when you flatten space by getting rid of not only the gravity, but the gravity tides,
that is the flat space that Einstein talks about when he says that space is not curved.
And it's the tides that indicate the space is curved. I've gotten rid of the tides so I've flattened a region of space time.
So about the size of a chocolate birthday cake.
In your paper, did you allude to Dragon's Egg?
Yes, I referenced not only the novel, but I also referenced the article that I did for Analog called Taste of Dragon's Egg, which appeared, I think, it was April of 1980.
So in fact, that is the first reference and if anybody really ever wants to credit the first reference to a gravity compensation technique,
they'll have to reference the Science Fiction Magazine and not the journal.
The aliens, I call them chelas, does that correct pronunciation?
Yes.
Okay.
They have such a...
Chela and I'm glad you got it that way because when I originally wrote the novel, I had it with a single E and then I found out the word chela is the...
I think it's the claw and the crab or something like that. So I added another E and made it something unique and different.
And that's what Mary Lois gave me the idea for. She's the one that named it Mary Lois, My Daughter.
And we were trying to think up some kind of unique name that was fairly easy to pronounce and was quite different, didn't have any connotations, and it's amazing how many short word combinations mean something to somebody.
But chela, outside of the crab reference, I couldn't find it. It worked out quite well.
The names were so interesting that you have to spend a lot of time thinking of those.
Well, once I had placed my imagination and myself on the surface of the neutron star, now once I knew the territory well enough and appreciated the fact that the light on this star comes from below, not above.
So the sky is black, there's no light coming out of it except a few stars. Everything is a glow from below.
And the territory is very flat because of the terrific gravity.
I began to sort of appreciate what it was like there.
And what I basically did was take the Indian techniques of naming children about things that occurred shortly after they were born and applied it to the chela, but put in a hyphen so it would take out the Indian context.
And also, of course, a lot of the Indian things like eagles and feathers and the sky and things like that don't exist, so I had to do that transfer.
The way I saw the chela civilization was that since they were egg layers, and not only egg layers, but egg layers that abandoned their young in one sense.
But actually what they, I'm sure that in the days before they became civilized, they basically abandoned their young.
Just like crocodiles and turtles do.
But now the older people lose their sex drive, the older chela use their, lose their sex drives and take over the mothering of the eggs, even though they may be male or female.
It doesn't make any difference.
And soon I began to realize that in my dreaming up of these creatures, I'd end up with a social structure that was sort of halfway between a Scottish clan and an Indian tribe.
And as if both the Indians and the Scottish were crocodiles that laid eggs instead of having the problems of mammals that they had to take care of their young.
The younger, immediately viable, and crocodiles and turtles, and so are the little tiny chela.
So what I tried to do is imagine what it would be like if instead of monkeys developing intelligent social interaction, crocodiles developed intelligent social interactions.
Or I guess a better thing to say would be dinosaurs because there was a bipedal dinosaur that laid eggs that had hands that could manipulate.
And unfortunately, I guess it didn't live through some kind of asteroid crunch or comet crunch or something, or maybe a supernova explosion.
One thing in science fiction, we always run into aliens.
As scientists probably think that there does exist a lot of life in the universe, but I have a little more trouble accepting that there's that much intelligence in the universe.
What are your landed comments on this topic?
The fact that the empty space between stars is full of organic compounds, which just seem to be formed naturally by carbon and hydrogen and oxygen and a little bit of starlight and lots of time,
sort of seems to me that this stuff that exists out between stars ought to exist just as well on the surface of planets and so forth.
And so that I really firmly believe that there's lots of life out there because it just sort of seems to form naturally.
And we have physical evidence of it from the molecular spectra we get, not from planets.
We don't have any evidence that there's any organic material on planets except for one hour.
But we do have plenty of evidence. There's lots of quite complex molecular materials in space, and so therefore, I mean, it would be begging the question to say that it doesn't exist on any other planet but ours.
All right, but if you have a planet that's a decent temperature and so forth, you will find plenty of organic molecules on it, and I just believe that there is plenty of life.
Now, the next question is intelligent life.
There's a good question there.
We did not, I mean, we existed on this world as very happy, non-intelligent, ape-like beings, or maybe before that we were shrew-like beings, or what, mammals have been around for a long, long time, but they didn't need to be intelligent to survive.
Why we developed intelligence nobody knows.
Now, in Dragon's Egg, I said that we had the pressure of a supernova explosion that did it.
In Dragon's Egg, for the neutron star creatures, they were perfectly happy.
Sheila, not intelligent, they didn't know how to count. They really had a very primitive social organization, not much better than what wolves and crocodiles have when lions, when they form into pods and things like that.
And it wasn't until there was a mystery that required intelligence to solve, in this case, why are these stars moving around the sky in such a weird way, that intelligence does evolve.
So it could be that you're right that intelligent life is fairly rare.
However, once it does evolve, the particular creature that develops it then proceeds to take over not only the world, but the environment, and not just the animal life in the world, it starts dominating that.
But it even dominates the physical planet of which it lives.
So it's a very strong survival characteristic, because we don't have any enemies except ourselves.
And that's kind of amazing for a naked ape who isn't very strong, but he uses its intelligence to cage tigers and lions that could rip it apart in a minute.
And elephants stick stomp on it.
It's just amazing what intelligence will do for you.
So, yet, I don't know, there is another problem that's called the Fermi Paradox, and it's, where is everybody?
If the world, excuse me, if the universe had a lot of intelligent species in it, most of them would be billions of years older than we are, because we are on around a second generation star.
Our star is made up of trash left over from exploding supernovas from the first generation stars.
And if there were a lot of intelligent beings, they had billions of years to sort of wander slowly at a snail's pace throughout the galaxy, and they should have been here a long time ago.
And there's no evidence for it, and we aren't finding signals.
And so there's a good deal of speculation in the scientific literature right now that there is no other intelligent race within this galaxy.
We are the first.
I don't really buy the argument, because I much prefer to believe that an intelligent being, say, a thousand or years or a million years, and especially a billion years older than we are, has better sense than to come and say hello to us.
And the reason for that is that what does a civilization that's a million years older or a billion years older than we are, what can they gain from us?
The only thing they can gain from us is to watch us as we develop, to see if we develop in a different direction than they did, and find something new that they didn't find because they evolved from an intelligently point in a different direction.
If they contaminated us with one single evidence, one single clue, that there existed a billion year race, billion year old race out there, our present course of development would be immediately diverted to try and track theirs,
and we would miss whatever new that we might find.
So there's a very strong reason for an intelligent, ancient, intelligent species to leave us absolutely alone, because otherwise we're of no value to them.
We'll have to talk now about some whole science fiction themes. Let's start off with faster than light travel. This is forbidden, theoretically, by the theory of relativity. What are your thoughts on the future for faster than light travel?
Well, let me start first of all by saying that faster than light travel is not forbidden by the special theory of relativity.
What the theory of special relativity says is that an object that is going slower than the speed of light cannot accelerate up to or through the speed of light, well, it can't accelerate through the speed of light because it can't get up to the speed of light.
And the only thing the theory says that if you travel at the speed of light and you have rest mass to begin with, then you need to add an infinite amount of energy to get up to the speed of light.
It does, the special theory of relativity allows things to move at the speed of light, like light or neutrinos, well, maybe not neutrinos, they may have that now, or gravitons.
But there are things that are allowed to move at the speed of light, but only at the cost of not being able to exist at any speed but the speed of light.
But you can't have a photon standing still.
So, it also allows things to move below the speed of light. We are moving below the speed of light.
And amazingly enough, that it does allow objects to exist that move faster than the speed of light, provided those objects have imaginary mass, instead of regular mass.
The equations, if an object has imaginary mass, it must move faster than the speed of light, they're called tachyons, and they're allowed by the special theory of relativity.
And in fact, in order to slow a tachyon down to the speed of light, you have to add lots and lots of energy to it.
And the more energy you get, add to it, the slower it gets, and the closer it gets to the speed of light.
The more energy you take away, the faster it gets, until finally, when you have almost no energy, and it's going nearly at infinite speed.
But that's allowed by the special theory, you know, the real question is whether or not an object can have an imaginary mass, and then so far as we know, no, they can't.
Now, this means that if you want to go from being a normal matter object, at less than the speed of light, you want to go faster than the speed of light, you have to do one of two things.
Well, you have to do at least one thing, you've got to turn yourself, the mass in your body, from normal matter into imaginary matter.
How you do that, we don't know yet. But if you could do it, then you'd automatically be going faster at the speed of light.
It wouldn't cost you any energy because the energy of a tachyon above the speed of light is the same as the energy of a tachyon of some object below the, of a non-tachyon, below the speed of light.
They're called tachyons, if you're less than the speed of light.
So you could sort of jump from a tachyon subsea state to a tachyon supersea state with no cost and energy, if only you could figure out some way to convert your mass into an anti-mass.
No, excuse me, not anti-mass, imaginary mass. Anti-mass is another subject.
Now, there's other ways to get from one place to another.
I mean, when you talk about going faster than light, really what you want to do is get from here to there without traveling all the steps in between.
If you can do that, then you can go faster than light. There's two ways, at least, that I know to do that.
One is to find a space warp. You jump into the space warp, you go into a hyperspace, and then you come out of another space warp somewhere else in our universe.
And if you can do that any time shorter than it takes you to travel over the top life, then you've done that.
An amazing thing about it is the Einstein General Theory of Relativity has space warps in it.
You can read about that in my article called Far-Out Physics, which I think is the August 78, 75 issue of analog.
Then the other way to go faster and speed up light is to destroy the space between you and where you want to go.
Now this space drive theory was invented by a student of Roger Penrose.
He's a scientific expert and relativist that works with Hawking on gravitation.
He's working on a thing called Twister Theory.
And in the Twister Theory, the real universe is not what we see. That's only a reduced image of it.
The real universe is an eight-dimensional universe that's made up of twisters.
The twisters not only make up all the particles in the space and time that we live in, it even makes up the space and the time.
It takes a certain collection of twisters to make up a point in space.
It takes another collection of twisters to make up a point in time.
This collection of twisters is a fairly uniform thing, and that's why we see space as it is according to Penrose.
Now we don't know whether the Twister Theory is correct, but Roger is hoping that it will turn out to be an accurate method, I mean, an accurate theory for the inverse.
Now, in Einstein's General Theory of Relativity, a mass causes a curve in space-time, which we...
All it is is a mathematical curvature, but we think it's a gravity force.
Now in Roger's Theory, Roger Penrose's Theory, a mass causes a warp in twister space, which we recognize as gravity.
We don't know what the warp in space, we call it a force, called gravity force.
In Roger's Twister Space, a different kind of a twist causes electricity.
Another kind of a twist causes magnetism, and he hopes to find all of the force...things that we call force...
are nothing more than different kinds of warpages in this eight-dimensional Twister Space.
Now the other thing the students have found is if you warp the space, the twister space too much, give it a real strong warp,
then it's no longer ordered well enough to make a piece of space or a piece of time.
So if you take a piece of twister space and you warp it badly, the space in the time that it used to make now disappears.
It's no longer there.
So there's a version of a different kind of a faster-than-like drive.
As you take a spacecraft up, you get it out in the wave in the planets and so forth,
and then you turn on the twister warping machine in your spacecraft on the side part Alpha Centauri,
and you just warp that space so much that you warp that twister space so much
that the space time between here and Alpha Centauri disappears.
And what you'll see if you're sitting in a spacecraft is that all of a sudden Alpha Centauri just come right toward you,
and pretty soon you'll look out one window, you see the Sun, you look out the other window, you'll see Alpha Centauri.
Then the machine inside the spacecraft unwarps the space, but on the other side of the spacecraft,
and all that space now reappears between the spacecraft and the Sun.
You watch the Sun recede off into the distance while you stay there with Alpha Centauri.
So that's another way to get there. You just get rid of the space between here and there.
So those are two faster-than-like drives that are based on theories,
but they're good, strong, scientific theories. They aren't science fiction theories.
So what about a closely allied topic time travel? What other would be possible?
According to Einstein, it is possible. Again, you have to use very strong gravity fields to travel in time.
Now, of course, there's a simple one-way time machine. We have to be living on one.
But if you live on the Earth, you'll live a few milliseconds longer than somebody that has spent all of his life in space,
because the Earth is a time machine that slows time down.
Of course, that's not really too useful, but once you start talking about black holes,
the time violation effects become very large.
And if you could somehow manage to survive near a black hole, and don't forget the tides there are pretty tremendous,
if you could somehow survive near a black hole, you could live ten to a hundred times longer than a person back on Earth.
But if you make other kinds of objects out of other kinds of machines out of material with the density of a neutron star or a black hole,
then you can get some very interesting effects, because you can travel both backward and forward in time.
Now, there's one machine which has been predicted by a mathematical researcher at the University of Texas called Roger Kerr many years ago.
It's called the Kerr metric. It is an exact solution to the Einstein gravity equation, which makes it, you know, a very powerful and scientifically recognized theory.
Various people, including Brandon Carter, have examined this solution to try and find out what it means physically.
I mean, after all, all he did was come up with a mathematical equation and said,
this mathematical equation when substituted into Einstein's equation solves it.
Okay? So therefore, it is a solution. It's allowed by the Einstein theory.
But Brandon Carter examined this space that Kerr had described mathematically and began to realize that what it was describing was a donut-shaped object.
Typically, if we had something about the size of a hundred, excuse me, the mass of a hundred suns, then it would be a donut-shaped object about a hundred miles across.
And it would be spinning very rapidly.
If you tried to go in the plane of the ring and you headed toward the ring, you would find that you get into stronger and stronger gravity fields and you get dragged around by the gravity and you'd finally get squashed by the gravity as you hit the surface.
If you come down along the axis, however, you'd find that you'd be attracted toward this black hole donut, spinning black hole donut.
But you wouldn't go, you'd be attracted toward the middle where there isn't any mass. Okay?
And so the equations are still quite valid there because you're not getting into high tides or if it's about a hundred miles across the tides, it's going to be not too nice.
This would be maybe ten or a hundred gravities, but not enough that you couldn't stand it if you worked at it.
And you would find yourself falling right through the donut hole.
And the amazing thing is, according to what the equations were saying, is that you would not come out on the other side of that donut.
Instead, you would enter a hyperspace because as you travel closer and closer to the black hole, this twisting gravity space that the black hole was making, this donut shaped black hole was making,
would start distorting your space and time compared to what it used to be when you were far away from it.
Your forward direction, in other words, the direction that you're facing in, would start to have a lot of time mixed up with it.
And what you would call time starts to become part of a space direction.
By the time you hit the center of that ring, your forward direction has been turned into time and what used to be time to you has been turned into your forward direction.
Now you don't know this because you're just falling through, you're just fat and happy in your own little coordinate system.
So you go into fallout of this black hole, you look back at the black hole and you'll find that instead of pulling it, pulling you toward it, it's now pushing you away.
When you get through the black hole, you'll find that the other side is negative matter, not imaginary matter like I was talking about before, but negative matter that pushes you away.
And so you'd enter this hyperspace, if you're lucky enough to find another one you can come out again, but that's your space form.
But you're now in this hyperspace and things are quite strange there, not to you, but in general they will be.
And there's a lot of twisted, whirling space around you because of the other side of the black hole.
If you turn on your rockets and you travel opposite to the direction of the spin of the donut, you will be going backward according to the donut, you'll be going backward in space.
If you go the other way, you'll be going forward in space.
You do this for a while, then you turn on your rocket again and go back up through the hole and you come back out into normal space.
While you were in the hyperspace, you traveled forward in what you thought was space.
Really, according to our view outside, you were traveling forward in time.
If you traveled backwards in space, underneath that black hole, you would be going backwards in time.
All of this is published in an article in a physical review, again, a most prestigious scientific journal.
The resulting effects are described by Carter as saying, a black, a spinning, ultimately spinning black hole is like a time machine.
He says that in the article.
He refuses to believe it.
He says there must therefore be something wrong with the Einstein general theory of relativity because it violates causality.
Now, that's what he wants to believe.
I believe that maybe there's something wrong with causality rather than with Einstein's theory.
Now, there have been scientists that refused, that didn't want to accept this paper by Carter.
There have been a lot of papers published since which said that there are flaws in this argument.
One of the flaws is that if you try and go through this black hole, the very fact that you are there and your mass is there will cause the black hole to collapse.
Because it's not a stable situation.
And any minor perturbation, including you trying to go through it, will cause it to collapse.
My point is, is that there are a lot of things in this world that are not stable and yet they still don't collapse because we're there to keep with feedback loops, keeping from collapsing.
If we learn to develop the power, we can keep a black hole from collapsing while we're going through it.
So, from a scientific point of view, time travel is not impossible.
It is difficult.
There are also other solutions to the Einstein equations.
I think I know of at least two others that aren't as accurate as the current solution.
They involve approximation.
But from an engineering point of view, it's really kind of trivial, although mathematicians could argue engineers wouldn't.
Those solutions are good solutions.
One of them I call the Tipler Time Machine.
It was been used by Larry Miven and also by Fred Pole.
And I, of course, used it in an article in Antelone.
And there's another one, just a collapsing cloud of dust will have time confusing regions in it.
So, the Einstein theory of general relativity seems to say that you can go backward and forward in time.
It involves engineering that humans will never do, because by the time we develop those engineering capabilities,
we'll have evolved to something else than humans.
But still, it's not impossible, theoretically, to have both faster than light travel or time machines, as far as I'm concerned.